this is a velvet ant
but it's not really an ant it's a wasp
and it's not even velvet yeah it's okay
if you're confused
so are most people since the females
don't have wings and can't fly
well naming the thing and doesn't help
either
anyway no wings means they crawl on the
ground like ants
and unlike normal wasps they don't build
their own nests
they actually take over the nests of
bees flies and other insects
wow pushy little things it's easy to
take someone's house when you have one
of the strongest stings among all wasps
that and its exoskeleton that's a
skeleton on the outside
is like real armor both have allowed
this ant imposter to have hardly any
predators at all
if you ever get stung by one first of
all ow it hurts
and it hurts for hours secondly you'll
know it was a female
because the males can't sting small
comfort i know
so if you in this bizarre little bug
ever have a rendezvous
just tip your hat and back away slowly
and always wear shoes remember these
things don't fly
most things happen from someone
accidentally stepping on them
and if you see this guy don't step on
him either
if you're fast enough that is these
things are super speedy
even though the house centipede looks
like a monster from horror flicks
it's on your side it feeds on the pests
that live in your house
flies moths cockroaches termites spiders
all on the centipede's dinner plate oh
yeah its bite is venomous
but the venom is harmless to humans
besides their tiny mouth parts can
barely break through human skin
and your pets are perfectly safe too
if you ever see what just let it carry
on with its business of keeping your
house clean and insect free
now if you ever run into its cousin the
giant cetipede
run the other way this unearthly looking
creature can be as long as your forearm
and your fear is justified with this one
it casually dines on
not only small insects but also
scorpions tarantulas
lizards mice and rats there are even
known cases of these guys going after
birds bats and snakes the giant
centipedes venom
is extremely potent it easily stops
their lunch in its tracks
for humans it's usually survivable
though not a fun experience to put it
lightly
look but don't touch the japanese giant
hornet's wingspan
is so wide they're sometimes called the
sparrow b
and its stinger is long enough to
puncture a beekeeping suit
so don't plan on that saving you
we're still these guys are never alone
when one hornet detects danger
it sprays venom on its opponent the
smell of that spray
then attracts its friends in just a few
seconds
you'll find yourself face to face with a
swarm of these behemoth buzzards
running might save you but get ready for
a long distance race
japanese giant hornets can fly up to 50
miles a day
a marathon is half that distance
the adorable fluffy puss moth
caterpillar is
irresistibly touchable like a tiny
kitten bug
wrong keep your hands away
that fur is actually a toxic toupee of
venomous spikes
when something comes in contact with it
say your hand
the bristles get embedded in the skin
the venom irritates the side
a severe burning sensation follows and
can last
up to an hour the brown recluse
doesn't want to go anywhere near you as
much as you don't want to go near it
and these spiders are mostly passive
staying tucked away
out of sight and undisturbed in cellars
attics and
other quiet dark places if you
accidentally bother it it usually just
scurries away
but if you provoke it you'll regret it
its venom is highly potent
even stronger than a rattlesnake's once
it enters the body the venom
starts breaking down tissues robbing
them of the oxygen they need to live
the effects can worsen and last for
months
but brown recluses can go without food
for almost 10 months
so this fella is unlikely to go into
your kitchen or
bedroom in search of grub so there you
can sleep peacefully knowing that
right the maricopa harvester ant
is one of the most venomous in the world
like the giant hornet
its poison serves as a marker for other
harvesters and they
come to the rescue in this case
you need to book it out of there as soon
as possible
only a dozen bites have enough venom to
take down a good good-sized rat
and this is no bee sting when it's one
and done
these ants can inject their venom
multiple times
now picture this you're all tucked in at
night dozing off in your warm bed
but in the middle of the night you have
an unwanted visitor
it crawls across the blankets up to your
face
finds your lips and it kisses you
and when i say kiss i actually mean bite
the kissing bug usually hides during the
day and goes out looking for food at
night
and their food is blood
they have a nasty habit of biting people
on the face and neck
earning them their other nickname the
vampire bug
actually i think we could have started
with that nickname but
now the titsy fly lives in africa and
looks mostly like any
ordinary flaw but if you see it run with
all the strength in your body
thereby if not treated immediately
usually isn't survivable after a few
months
and these things have been terrorizing
the earth for over 30 million years
i wasn't around then but back in the day
the whole animal world looked completely
different
the tropical humid climate on the entire
planet
helped the tt feel comfortable and
multiply
let's move on to south asia where you'll
find the red indian scorpion
it's only about the size of your finger
but it's one of the most venomous in the
world
they mostly mind their own business
feeding on insects or even small lizards
but they have a habit of living near
human settlements
especially in rural areas and that's
where accidents often happen
after a long day of catching food and
doing you know scorpion stuff
these guys like to crawl into someone's
bed at night or early morning
or they just fall from the ceiling right
on you sleeping there so soundly
just imagining it is nightmare fuel
now the most infamous spider of them all
the black widow
you can't miss her that iconic red
hourglass on her belly
this teeny tiny spider only the size of
your fingernail
packs a punch highly venomous
check and the stuff goes straight for
your nervous system
it's potent enough to cause muscle
cramps and spasms within hours
the good news it's mostly survivable for
us big humans
the teeny tiny black widow's web is
surprisingly strong
it can easily hold a lizard or toad and
yes she got the famous name because she
tends to
um gobble up her mate the title for
the most venomous spider in the world
belongs to the sydney funnel web
some applause that's enough
the name comes from the shape of the web
it builds looks like you're peering down
a tornado from above
it's big it's dangerous and it's fast
the sinister spidey can grab its prey
firmly and bite
several times if your skin happens to be
the target
you have less than an hour to get an
anti-venom in you
but not all terrors are big some sit
comfortably on the tips of grass
and wait for their lunch to pass by oh
look it's your leg
the monster grabs on and makes a human
juice box out of you
ticks might be small but that's what
makes them so scary
they can hide anywhere your grass bushes
on the ground
in the leaves you hardly feel them
crawling on you
and their bite goes undetected sometimes
they can even make a person sick
now any guesses for the most dangerous
insect in the world
we've had a lot of contenders venomous
spiders ruthless
ants and nightmare-inducing centipedes
but the one thing that
wreaks the most havoc on the human
population is
mosquitoes they're not venomous their
bite doesn't hurt
it's the sicknesses they carry
mosquitoes are excellent hunters
they have a special organ that detects
the carbon dioxide we produce when we
breathe
once they find their target a mosquito
can drink three times its weight in
blood
these vampires are one of the oldest
species on our planet
going back over 200 million years poor
t-rex couldn't even swat one with those
tiny arms
back then they stayed in warm tropical
areas but now
they can be found on all continents
except for antarctica
those lucky penguins and humans are to
blame for all that
mosquitoes would hide their larvae on
ships and sail the world with us
that might even sound kind of romantic
if it weren't for the context